all right a big part of being a web
developer these days is using the
terminal the terminal is something that
creative and visual people kind of avoid
in a lot of ways because it kind of
there's no instruction manual there's no
buttons to it and yet it feels like it's
hard to wrap your mind around what all
the terminal is we're going to break
that down to a very low level it's very
simple it's just a few basic commands to
be really comfortable in the terminal so
we're going to do that today and this
will hopefully really help you out if
you need to open it you've never opened
it before you're going to go
applications utilities and then terminal
and there it is and I'll drag terminal
onto my dock so it's saved there and
here we are at our terminal and by
default it's going to open us up to our
Tilda directory which is our user's home
directory let's get into our first
command our first command is LS and if
you're on Windows that's going to be dir
for the most part these commands are
going to be the same but this is really
a Mac Linux tutorial you may have to
Google you know what the commands are
but the principles are all exactly the
same so here we go LS you can see this
is my home directory for my user and so
LS is going to show me my list of all
the files and the folders the next
command we're going to use is CD CD is
changed directory I can go CD space
pictures and LS and you can see this is
my pictures directory for my home users
I don't really have any pictures just my
iPhoto library and my photo booth
library and then I can also go CD dot
dot which is going to go up a level into
my previous directory so now I'm back to
my user directory a hotkey that you can
do is command K Apple K which clears out
your terminal which is very useful
command you can see so I'm back to my
home directory you can also go CD
forward slash which is going to take me
to my root directory which is the same
as just going Macintosh HD you can see
that's this applications library system
blah blah blah now I'm now at my root
directory so I can go back to my user
directory or I can go there the long way
which is CD space users yeah
and there we go I'm back at my CMN my
home login directory so if I want to go
to multiple directories at a time
I can go CD space code I know I have a
code directory sandbox I have a sandbox
directory test I just went into a
upper-level to code up a level the
sandbox up a level to test I just went
into that folder and if I hit LS I have
one folder here called another folder so
let's go ahead and make another
directory here it's mkdir make directory
mkdir yet another folder so if I at LS
there we go yet another folder I'm
actually going to open this test folder
that an in right now so you can see I
made yet another folder let's make
another one and again there we go and
again so now I have three folders in
here if I want to remove a folder I can
RM and again up it's a it's a full
directory so I have to use RM / R which
is recursive and again there we go so if
I want to actually remove a file I can
just use RM for remove or I can use RM -
R which will remove recursively anything
inside of that entire directory so we're
almost out of commands I know you're
probably freaking out that this is all
the terminal is it's LS its CD it's make
directory and it's RM that's pretty much
it
I'll get to show you a couple cool
commands here let's do one more and that
is touch that will create a file for me
so I touched index.html why it put it
under there I have no idea
so I touched index.html that made a
blank file called index.html I can open
index.html and it will open it in
whatever my default program for that is
which in this case is Chrome so I get an
empty page I can open index.html and I
if I do - a and then in these quotes I
can put a program name it does it is
case sensitive so I can't do lower case
some
line text I have to do uppercase sublime
uppercase text and there we go here's my
index.html so I can just kind of go I'm
a webpage save it close it so now if I
open index.html I'm a web page there we
go
and I can also open it up in sublime
text again and there it is I can edit it
and save it this is actually pretty
convenient I'm using all the time now
open commands from the command line
because it's really convenient one thing
you'll notice I'm doing is when I hit
the up and down arrows it goes through
all my previous commands another thing
that's very very very useful because
lots of times you'll just want to do a
command over and over and over again and
it's a lot easier to hit up another
thing you can do is open dot that's
going to open my current folder that I'm
in which is tests so if I hit open dot
it's going to open it in finder which is
the default so let me show you again
open dot opens finder if you're ever in
the command line and there's just
something you want to do that's more
convenient for you in in finder like say
rename this get another folders you know
sometimes that's just easier for you to
do in finder if you're not comfortable
with a command line and you just want to
open dot I can also open dot with
application sublime text and that's
going to take me to my whole folder you
know it's got my whole folder view now
in sublime text very very useful I can
do that in any other program I want and
so that's a great command gosh we're
almost out of basic command line
commands uh pretty much the only other
thing that we're going to want to do
let's see we've done RM so let me list I
will open dots so we can see this happen
in action so I can RM index.html let's
delete it there we go I can RM - are my
yet another folder what
is just called yet it's yet another
folders uh I renamed it and if you want
to rename things let me touch index dot
HTML again there its back so what I can
do is I can rename it that's M V it's
called it's for move but move is
actually how you rename it I'm going to
rename index.html to index two dot HTML
there we go it just got renamed I can
rename another folder this folder there
we go it just got renamed so the MV is
your rename that's kind of
counterintuitive to a lot of people but
you're really not renaming the file
you're moving the file to a different
location as far as the command line is
concerned you're moving it to a
different URL or path so to speak so
that's pretty much that I'll show you
one more cool trick and we'll be done
with this is at any point time you can
hit tab to autocomplete so if I wanted
to open in if I just hit I in and hit
tab it's going to autocomplete that for
me ah that saves so many typos
especially if you have complex file
names so if I go open in index to HTML
there we go it opened it if I go open I
can't do it on program names
unfortunately but I was able to
autocomplete that for there and then I
can also open this I can just hit tab
this folder a there we go this folder is
now open in sublime text so that's
pretty much the commands CD you can go
CD forward slash to go to your root
directory you can go CD slash tilde to
go to your user directory LS it's going
to show your filenames mkdir and these
will all be in the description as your
cheat sheet make directory rename a file
or should I say move a file and remove a
file which you have to do /r for
directories that's your intro to the
terminal do it play around use some
commands have fun and know that you
don't have to be afraid of the terminal
anymore thanks have a great day
you